Updated the local installation guide for Astronomer Core (#265)
astronomer/docs: ac/next/01_quickstart.md

---
title: "Astronomer Core Quickstart"
navtitle: "Quickstart"
description: "Spin up example pipelines on Astronomer Core in minutes."
---

## Overview

Designed in close partnership with both Apache Airflow committers and users, Astronomer Core (AC) an image that combines Airflow's extensibility with industry standards for security, reliability, and scale.

Use this guide to quickly get started with AC on a local machine. You'll spin up the essential components of AC on your local machine and deploy an example DAG via the Astronomer CLI.

There are two primary ways to obtain the Astronomer Core:

> - [Docker Image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab =tags)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Debian-based Docker Image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab =tags)
```

- [Python Package](https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/apache-airflow/)

The recommended way to install Astronomer Core for a local environment, and the focus of this guide, is to install the latest version of the Astronomer-hosted Docker image which corresponds to the latest Apache Airflow release. For the Python Wheel setup, read to [Install via Python Wheel](/docs/ac/next/01_quickstart#install-via-python-wheel).

For Astronomer's full collection of Docker Images, reference our public [Quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

## Prerequisites

> To run Astronomer Certified locally, you'll need the following on your machine:

Author: Assuming it's cool we do this when the packages/ images still reference certified?

- [Python 3](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

> - [Astronomer CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/enterprise/v0.23/get-started/quickstart)

Author: This is a can-of-worms question at the moment, as we'll have to link out regardless if we're hosting the CLI reference guide on product docs. I think our end goal would be to host all CLI docs on AC, but for the time being (ie before we have our own landing page) I don't think it hurts to link out.

    ![Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/getting-started/sample_dag.png)

    You should also be able to access your Postgres Database at `localhost:5432/postgres`.

That's all it takes! You're now ready to begin testing DAGs and Airflow features on your local machine.

## Install Via Python Wheel

We also distribute Astronomer Core as a python wheel available on PyPi. This distribution can be run locally via the same mechanisms used to run the Apache Airflow package.

1. Run `export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow` to give Astronomer Core a home root directory on your machine.

2. Run the following command to get the latest version of the distribution on your machine:

    ```sh
    PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10.*'
    ```

    Note that if you'd like to install a specific version, you can do so by appending the version tag via the following syntax:

    ```sh
    PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10-1'

>     ```

Reviewer: Probably more room here to explain versioning - do you think that merits a separate "Astronomer Core Versioning" doc, much like we have "Upgrade Apache Airflow on Astronomer"? https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/customize-airflow/manage-airflow-versions

Author: Yep, I've got an upgrade doc in the pipelines! Would definitely link here once it's completed.

> 3. Run `$ airflow initdb` to build out your project directory and initialize a lightweight SQLite database for Airflow.

Reviewer: We should figure out if people could swap SQLite for another database here - or, maybe this is our default locally and we say "to use another database in production refer to x doc"

Author: It looks like you can modify aspects of the db by running `airflow reset` after changing configurations in `airflow.cfg`, but you always need to run `airflow initdb` once to actually initialize it. For the quickstart, I think this would suffice. But if we have a doc about modifying the database in the future, this would be a good place to link that.

4. Run `$ airflow webserver -p 8080` to spin up the Webserver on your `localhost:8080`.

5. Run `$ airflow scheduler` to spin up the Scheduler.

## Next Steps

> Now that you have Astronomer Core Airflow running on your local machine, you might want to do one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that you have Astronomer Core running on your local machine, you might want to do one of the following:
```

* Set up Astronomer Core in a production environment.
* Try out key AC and Airflow features using one of our Airflow guides.
* Learn more about what's in the AC image.

> If you want all of the features of AC, plus additional metrics, security, and customer support, consider exploring our Astronomer Cloud and Enterprise offerings.

Reviewer: If we assume that anyone trying out Airflow for the first time is reading this guide, I think there's a lot of room here to expand these resources. That includes:
- Linking to Airflow Docs
- Linking to Airflow Guides (mentioned but not linked), maybe suggesting 1 or 2
- If we chose to break apart our "Production" environment doc into specific guidelines on how to do x or y action, that might influence our guidance here

Reviewer: ^ Still applicable 🙂

---

> title: "Astronomer Core Quickstart"

Author: I think `local` is implied by the nature of a quickstart. Also would that not imply the existence of a production quickstart, which we don't really have?

navtitle: "Quickstart"
description: "Spin up example pipelines on Astronomer Core in minutes."
---

## Overview

Designed in close partnership with the Airflow community, Astronomer Core (AC) is an open source distribution of Apache Airflow built for teams ready to leverage the Python-based workflow management tool in production. Built and maintained by Astronomer, AC combines Airflow’s extensibility and community-driven development with industry standards for security, reliability, and scale.

To get started with AC on your local machine, follow this guide. We'll use the Astronomer CLI to create a local Airflow project and provision all essential components to get it running.

> There are two primary ways to obtain the Astronomer Core:
> 
> - [Debian-based Docker Image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags)
> - [Python Wheel](https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/apache-airflow/)
> 
> This quickstart focuses on setting up Astronomer Core via Docker, which is the what we recommend for local installations. For the Python Wheel setup, read to [Install via Python Wheel](/docs/ac/next/01_quickstart#install-via-python-wheel).
> 
> For Astronomer's full collection of Docker Images, reference our public [Quay.io repository](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For every major and minor version of Apache Airflow, our team produces two Astronomer Core artifacts:

- [A Debian-based Docker image](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/ap-airflow?tab=tags)
- [A Python Wheel](https://pip.astronomer.io/simple/apache-airflow/)

This quickstart focuses on the Astronomer Core Docker image, which is the recommended and most popular way to deploy the offering. For instructions on how to install the Python Wheel, read [Install via Python Wheel](/docs/ac/next/01_quickstart#install-via-python-wheel).

For Astronomer's full collection of Docker images, reference either of our public Docker registries:

- [Quay.io](https://quay.io/repository/astronomer/docker-airflow?tab=tags).
- [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/astronomerio/docker-airflow)
```

> > **Note: Astronomer Core is also hosted on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/astronomerinc/ap-airflow), but pulling your image from there might result in rate limiting errors. Because of that, we recommend pulling from the Quay.io repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note**: While you're free to pull the Astronomer Core Docker image from Docker Hub, you may encounter a [Docker pull rate limit error](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/docker-hub-rate-limit-error-toomanyrequests-you-have-reached-your-pull-rate-limit/887). To avoid limitations, we recommend referencing and pulling from Quay.io.
```

## Prerequisites

To run Astronomer Core locally, you'll need the following on your machine:

- [Python 3.7](https://www.python.org/downloads/)
- [Docker](https://www.docker.com/products/docker-desktop)

## Install the Astronomer CLI

> Astronomer's [open source CLI](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli) is the easiest way to run Airflow on your local machine. You'll need the CLI to complete this quickstart and create a local Airflow instance with a dedicated Webserver, Scheduler, and Postgres database.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astronomer's [open source CLI](https://github.com/astronomer/astro-cli) is the easiest way to run Airflow on your local machine. You'll need the Astronomer CLI to create a local Airflow instance with a dedicated Webserver, Scheduler, and Postgres database.
```

To install the latest version of the Astronomer CLI via cURL, run:

```
$ curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash
```

To install the latest version of the Astronomer CLI via Homebrew, run:

```
$ brew install astronomer/tap/astro
```

To confirm that you have the Astronomer CLI installed on your machine, run:

```bash
$ astro version
```

If the installation was successful, the version of the CLI that you installed will appear in the output:

```

> Astro CLI Version: 0.15.0

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Astro CLI Version: 0.23.3
```

Git Commit: c4fdeda96501ac9b1f3526c97a1c5c9b3f890d71
```

>**Note:** As of macOS Catalina, Apple [replaced bash with ZSH](https://www.theverge.com/2019/6/4/18651872/apple-macos-catalina-zsh-bash-shell-replacement-features) as the default shell. Our CLI install cURL command currently presents an incompatibility error with ZSH, sudo and the pipe syntax.
>
> If you're running macOS Catalina and beyond, do the following:
>
> 1. Run `sudo -K` to reset/un-authenticate
> 2. Run the following to install the CLI properly:
>
>    ```
>    $ curl -sSL https://install.astronomer.io | sudo bash -s < /dev/null
>    ```

## Install Astronomer Core via Docker

> To install and run the Astronomer Core distribution:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install and run the Astronomer Core distribution, follow the steps below.
```

Author: Reworded slightly

1. Create and move into a new directory for your Airflow project:

    ```sh
    $ mkdir astronomer-core && cd astronomer-core
    ```

2. Use the Astronomer CLI to initialize some of the necessary files you'll need to run a local AC image:

    ```sh
    $ astro dev init
    ```

    This command generates the following files in your project directory:

    ```sh
    .
    ├── dags # Where your DAGs go
    │   ├── example-dag.py # An example dag that comes with the initialized project
    ├── Dockerfile # For Astronomer's Docker image and runtime overrides
    ├── include # For any other files you'd like to include
    ├── plugins # For any custom or community Airflow plugins
    ├──airflow_settings.yaml #For your Airflow Connections, Variables and Pools (local only)
    ├──packages.txt # For OS-level packages
    └── requirements.txt # For any Python packages
    ```         

> 3. Start Airflow on your local machine by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
3. Start Airflow locally by running the following command:
```

   ```sh
   $ astro dev start
   ```

   This command will spin up 3 Docker containers on your machine, each for a different Airflow component:

   * **Postgres**: Airflow's Metadata Database
   * **Webserver**: The Airflow component responsible for rendering the Airflow UI
   * **Scheduler**: The Airflow component responsible for monitoring and triggering tasks

4. Verify that the 3 Docker containers were succesfully created by running:

    ```sh

>     docker ps

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ docker ps
```

    ```

    > **Note**: Running `$ astro dev start` will start your project with the Airflow Webserver exposed at port 8080 and Postgres exposed at port 5432.
    >
    > If you already have either of those ports allocated, you can either [stop existing docker containers](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/docker-error-in-cli-bind-for-0-0-0-0-5432-failed-port-is-already-allocated/151) or [change the port](https://forum.astronomer.io/t/i-already-have-the-ports-that-the-cli-is-trying-to-use-8080-5432-occupied-can-i-change-the-ports-when-starting-a-project/48).

5. Access the Airflow UI for your local Airflow project. To do so, go to http://localhost:8080/ and log in with `admin` for both your Username and Password. Your screen should look something like this:

    ![Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/getting-started/sample_dag.png)

    You should also be able to access your Postgres Database at `localhost:5432/postgres`.

That's all it takes! You're now ready to begin testing DAGs and Airflow features on your local machine.

## Install via Python Wheel

> We also distribute Astronomer Core as a python wheel available on PyPi. This distribution can be run locally via the same mechanisms used to run the Apache Airflow package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In addition to the Docker-based distribution, Astronomer Core is built as a Python Wheel available on PyPi. This distribution can be run locally via the same mechanisms used to run the Apache Airflow package.
```

> 1. Run `export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow` to give Astronomer Core a home root directory on your machine.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Run `$ export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow` to give Astronomer Core a home root directory on your machine.
```

Author: Assuming these suggestions are nulled given our recent Slack convo

2. Run the following command to get the latest version of the distribution on your machine:

    ```sh

>     PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10.*'

Reviewer: Does this assume the latest `Airflow 1.10.x`? Should we be prescriptive here in proposing 2.0, or at least call this out?

>     PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10.*'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10.*'
```

    ```

>     Note that if you'd like to install a specific version, you can do so by appending the version tag via the following syntax:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To install a specific version of Astronomer Core, append the version tag via the following syntax:
```

    ```sh

>     PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10-1'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==1.10.10-1'
```

Reviewer: Should this be `astronomer-certified==<airflow-version>`?

    ```

3. Run `$ airflow initdb` to build out your project directory and initialize a lightweight SQLite database for Airflow.

> 4. Run `$ airflow webserver -p 8080` to spin up the Webserver on your `localhost:8080`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Run `$ airflow webserver -p 8080` to provision the Webserver on your `localhost:8080`.
```

> 5. Run `$ airflow scheduler` to spin up the Scheduler.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Run `$ airflow scheduler` to provision the Scheduler.
```

> ## Next Steps

Reviewer: This guide seems to stop at the point where you have the Astronomer CLI installed, but it feels a little bit like we're leaving the user hanging. We need to figure out a connection here with the "Production" story", but I'd consider adding an extra section for:

- "Apply Changes to your Airflow Project" - https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/cli-quickstart#apply-changes-to-your-airflow-project

Once we have CLI reference guide, will be critical to link here too.

5. Access the Airflow UI for your local Airflow project. To do so, go to http://localhost:8080/ and log in with `admin` for both your username and password. Your screen should look something like this:

    ![Example DAG](https://assets2.astronomer.io/main/docs/getting-started/sample_dag.png)

    You should also be able to access your Postgres Database at `localhost:5432/postgres`.

That's all it takes! You're now ready to begin testing DAGs and Airflow features on your local machine.

## Install via Python Wheel

In addition to the Docker-based distribution, Astronomer Core is built as a Python Wheel available on PyPi. This distribution can be run locally via the same mechanisms used to run the Apache Airflow package.

1. Run `export AIRFLOW_HOME=~/airflow` to give Astronomer Core a home root directory on your machine.

2. Install Astronomer Certified using pip3. For example, to install Astronomer Certified for Airflow 2.0.0, you would run:

    ```sh

>     PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==2.0.0.*'

Author: It's more than the Airflow version through, right? I guess I don't understand the function of the asterisk at the end of the version number.

>     PIP_EXTRA_INDEX_URL='https://pip.astronomer.io/simple' pip3 install -U 'astronomer-certified==2.0.0.*'

Reviewer 2: Asterisk basically tells give me the latest version available in 2.0.0 AC series, so this should match 2.0.0-1, 2.0.0-2, 2.0.0-3 etc
